[#3585] Add ack-required command feature for Google Pub/Sub based commands (#3612)
eclipse-hono/hono: site/documentation/content/api/command-and-control-pubsub/index.md

The Business Application can consume the corresponding command response by creating a subscription from the
`projects/${google_project_id}/topics/${tenant_id}.command_response` topic.

> In contrast to a one-way command, a request/response command contains a *response-required* or an *ack-required*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast to a one-way command, a request/response command contains _either_ a *response-required* _or_ an *ack-required*
```

attribute with value `true` and a *correlation-id* attribute, providing the identifier that is used to correlate a
response message to the original request.

Devices can vary in their ability to respond to commands (e.g. firmware limitations). The Business Application can
tailor its expectations based on this:

1. **Device Response Expected:** For devices that can send a response, set `response-required` to true. This is the
default behavior for sending request/response commands. The command is sent with the *correlation-id* to the device,

> which is than expected to send a corresponding command response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is then expected to send a corresponding command response.
```

2. **Acknowledgement Only:** For devices lacking response capability, set `ack-required` to true. The command is sent

> without the *correlation-id* to the device, and the protocol adapter sends an acknowledgement as a command response on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without the *correlation-id* to the device, and the protocol adapter sends a positive acknowledgement as a command response on
```

behalf of the device upon receiving a transport layer confirmation (e.g., MQTT PUBACK) from the device.

> **Important Note:** Setting both `response-required` and `ack-required` to true is invalid and will result in command

Reviewer: IMHO we should highlight this even more by formatting it as a Warning
```
{{% notice warning %}}
Setting both *response-required* and *ack-required* to `true` is invalid and will result in the command being rejected.
{{% /notice %}}
```

Author: Good idea! I made the change and also added all your other remarks regarding the documentation.

**Message Flow**

> Device sends response (*response-required* set to true):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device sends response (*response-required* set to `true`):
```

>   1. The *Business Application* writes a command message with *response-required* set to true to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. The *Business Application* writes a command message with *response-required* set to `true` to the
```

     `projects/${google_project_id}/topics/${tenant_id}.command` topic on *Pub/Sub*.
  2. Hono consumes the message from *Pub/Sub* and forwards it to the device, provided that the target device is
     connected and is accepting commands.
  3. The device sends a command response message. Hono writes that message to
     the `projects/${google_project_id}/topics/${tenant_id}.command_response` topic on *Pub/Sub*.
  4. The *Business Application* consumes the command response message from an independently created subscription to
     the `projects/${google_project_id}/topics/${tenant_id}.command_response` topic.

> Protocol adapter sends response on behalf of device (*ack-required* set to true):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Protocol adapter sends response on behalf of device (*ack-required* set to `true`):
```

>   1. The *Business Application* writes a command message with *ack-required* set to true to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. The *Business Application* writes a command message with *ack-required* set to `true` to the
```

     `projects/${google_project_id}/topics/${tenant_id}.command` topic on *Pub/Sub*.
  2. Hono consumes the message from *Pub/Sub* and forwards it to the device as a one-way command, provided that the
     target device is connected and is accepting commands.

>   3. The device acknowledges the command on the transport layer. Hono writes an acknowledgement message to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. The device acknowledges reception of the command on the transport layer. Hono writes an acknowledgement message to
```

| *correlation-id*                             |    yes    | *string*  | The identifier used to correlate a response message to the original request. It is used as the *correlation-id* attribute in the response.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| *device_id*                                  |    yes    | *string*  | The identifier of the device that the command is targeted at.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

> | *response-required*                          |    no     | *boolean* | Either *response-required* or *ack-required* MUST exclusively be set with a value of `true` (XOR). *response-required* set to `true` means that the device is required to send a response for the command.                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *response-required*                          |    no     | *boolean* | `true` if the device is required to send a response for the command. *response-required* and *ack-required* MUST NOT both be set to `true` at the same time. |
```

> | *ack-required*                               |    no     | *boolean* | Either *response-required* or *ack-required* MUST exclusively be set with a value of `true` (XOR). *ack-required* set to `true` means that the protocol adapter will try to send an acknowledgement response for the command on behalf of the device in case the command was successfully received by the device. This mechanism has some limitations which are described in the info field below.    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *ack-required*                               |    no     | *boolean* | `true` if the protocol adapter should send an acknowledgement response for the command on behalf of the device in case the command was successfully received by the device. This mechanism has some limitations which are described in the info field below. *response-required* and *ack-required* MUST NOT both be set to `true` at the same time. |
```

The command message MAY contain arbitrary payload, set as message value, to be sent to the device. The value of the
message's *subject* attribute may provide a hint to the device regarding the format, encoding and semantics of the
payload data.

{{% notice info %}}
The acknowledgement mechanism is based on the transport level acknowledgement of the different communication protocols
and indicates that a command was received from the device. For MQTT devices this means they must subscribe on the
command topic with a Quality of Service (QoS) level of 1. Since the HTTP protocol doesn't support a transport level
acknowledgement, acknowledgements are considered best-effort, indicating the message was sent, not necessarily received. 

Currently, the acknowledgement mechanism only works with devices connected via the MQTT and HTTP protocol.
{{% /notice %}}

An application can determine the overall outcome of the operation by means of the response to the command. The response

> is either sent back by the device (response-required) or the adapter (ack-required), or in case the command could not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is either sent back by the device (*response-required*) or the adapter (*ack-required*), or in case the command could not be
```

**Response Message sent from Hono Component**

If the command response is an acknowledgement of a command by the Hono protocol adapter, it has a status code

> of *202* and the *content-type* attribute is set to *application/vnd.eclipse-hono-delivery-success-notification+json*.

Reviewer: FMPOV this type of message should be added to the Event API's list of [well known events](https://eclipse.dev/hono/docs/api/event/#well-known-event-message-types).

Author: Maybe I am missing the point, but since this is send as a command response and not as an event, I wouldn't add it to the Event API documentation.

Reviewer: Yes, you are probably right.
